This directory contains the scripts and files required to reproduce Figure 3 and Figure S2C, showing the dynamics of enhancer poising during the naive-to-primed transition (see Methods in Nocennte et al.).

For visualisation, CUT&Tag BAM files were sorted, indexed, biological triplicates were merged and converted to bigwig using these scripts:
- "01-Sort_Index_bamFiles_transition.sh",
- "02-Combine_merge_replicates_sortedBAM_transition.sh",
- "03-MergedSortedBAM_to_bigbiw_transition.sh".


For integration with PECHi-C data, CUT&Tag feature count matrices were generated on the bins of DpnII fragments used in PECHi-C analysis and cross-normalised them using size factors produced by DESeq2, using this script "CutNTag_feature_count_matrice_DpnII_binned_fragments_v19-02-2026.Rmd" and this input file "PileUpMatrix_HistoneMarks_5kb.txt".

 To reproduce Figures 3A and B, run the script "Figure3AB_CnT_transition_analysis_plots_script.R" using the following input files:
- pileup_file (MN_CnT_273_41_PileUp_NormComb_5kbRmap_v2.txt), available on OSF and generated by this script "CutNTag_feature_count_matrice_DpnII_binned_fragments_v19-02-2026.Rmd".
- baitmap_file (Human_PEcHiC_hg38_DpnII_bin5K_sol_baits.baitmap), available on OSF.
- cluster_file (pepm_transition_dtw_final_02-02-2026.txt), available in the "Temporal_clustering_PEs_contacts" directory.


 To reproduce Figure 3C and Figure S2C, run the script "Figure3C_FigureS2C_script.R" using the following input files:
- "varistran.R", available in this directory.
- Peakmatrix_raw_score_file (Day5_PRC2totalPooled_NPtransition_NE_DE.txt), available on OSF.
- dtw_clusters_file (pepm_transition_dtw_final_02-02-2026.txt), available in the "Temporal_clustering_PEs_contacts" directory.
- baitmap_file (Human_PEcHiC_hg38_DpnII_bin5K_sol_baits.baitmap_4col.txt), available on OSF.